---
type: docs
url: "hub/docs/folder/AppImage"
---

# Introduction

An AppImage is a version of the application that can be downloaded as one file, it is then started by double clicking that file. If it fails to launch with an error "Unknown file type", set permissions on the file to be run as an executable. Right click the file, properties -> permissions -> allow executing file as program. Then try double clicking it again.

**NOTE: The Appimage will also fail to start if GIMP or Artbox is already open!**

This AppImage for Artbox has been built for nearly all Linux distros. The following link is a manually updated release:
[download](https://gitlab.gnome.org/pixelmixer/artbox/-/raw/feature-appimage/AppImage/Artbox.AppImage?ref_type=heads&inline=false)

The AppImage is from the GitLab CI build of the artbox branch in the [Artbox](https://gitlab.gnome.org/pixelmixer/artbox/-/artifacts) repository.

## Downloading the Latest AppImage

A development version of the Artbox AppImage is always being generated by the CI system. You can download the latest build directly from:

https://gitlab.gnome.org/pixelmixer/artbox/-/artifacts

This link provides the most recent AppImage and related resources as soon as they are built and tested.

## Desktop Integration Resources

When you download the Artbox AppImage, the zip file includes additional resources to help with desktop integration:

**Included Files:**
- `artbox-logo.svg` - The official Artbox logo in SVG format
- `artbox.desktop` - Desktop launcher file (needs manually editing)
- `README.md` - Detailed instructions for desktop integration

**Creating a Desktop Launcher:**

1. Open `artbox.desktop` in a text editor.
2. Edit the file:
   - Change `Exec=` to the path of your Artbox AppImage
   - Change `Icon=` to the path of `artbox-logo.svg`
3. Save the edited file to your desktop (for quick access) and also to `~/.local/share/applications/artbox.desktop` (this location is required for your Linux desktop environment to recognize and list Artbox in your application menu or search). Saving to both locations ensures you can launch Artbox easily from your desktop and that it appears in your system's app launcher.
4. Make the file executable:
   - **Terminal method:**
     ```bash
     chmod +x ~/Desktop/artbox.desktop
     # or if saved to applications folder:
     chmod +x ~/.local/share/applications/artbox.desktop
     ```
   - **GUI method:**
     - Right-click the file
     - Select Properties
     - Go to the Permissions tab
     - Check "Allow executing file as program"

Example for AppImage:
```ini
[Desktop Entry]
Type=Application
Name=Artbox
Comment=Digital painting and image editing
Exec=/path/to/Artbox.AppImage
Icon=/path/to/artbox-logo.svg
Categories=Graphics;
```

## Related Links

[AppImage](https://appimage.org/)

